walega lecturer

Last lecture was slides 63-77

Pushdown automata have stacks

You can pop something or push something (put something or take something off of the top of the stack).

Can we simulate a pushdown automata with a standard NFA? NO because there is no limit on the size of the stack.

A language is decided by a NPDA iff L is described by a CFG

G is a set of rules (also productions) that replaces some variable or string of variables by something else.

Set of all strings generated using grammar G is the language of the grammar L(G)

CFGs are non-deterministic

In proofs we will use leftmost derivation when dealing with CFGs

We see that CFLs can be generated by a CFG in Chomsky Normal Form. 

In s81 example we can consider the stack to hold the variables so empty -> A -> ZC -> C -> AD (where leftmost is on the top of the stack)

A -> ZC can be simulated by an automaton that deletes A, then adds Z then adds C (syntactic sugar). Composition of allowed operations

We can easily make a pushdown automaton accept only if the stack is empty (can put a $ symbol on the bottom of the starting stack and then ...)

Ignore second bullet point on s89

X --> VW | a means X can go to VW or to a

If a variable can be found twice on the same downward path in a derivation tree, then it can be pumped.

How big must the tree be to ensure some pump?

Any string of length greater than 2<sup>v+1</sup> will have a derivation tree with a long enough path that it must result in a pump. 

//Can you pump out of a single side of the variable? Might have something to do with CNF//

In some way they pump the infinite case into the rules of the PDA (similar to the states in the DFA). Or they pump linearly but not squarely.

